Components: add `Tabs` (a composable `TabPanel` v2) (#53960)
WordPress/gutenberg: packages/components/src/tabs/README.md

Reviewer: Should `selectedTabId` be added to the README?

Author: Good catch!

# Tabs

> Tabs is a collection of React components that combine to render an [ARIA-compliant tabs pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/).

Reviewer 2: Let's add an initial paragraph about this component being experimental for the time being (you should be able to copy that from other components' READMEs)

-   Required: Yes

###### `selectOnMove`: `boolean`

When `true`, the tab will be selected when receiving focus (automatic tab activation). When `false`, the tab will be selected only when clicked (manual tab activation). See the [official W3C docs](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabpanel/) for more info.

-   Required: No
-   Default: `true`

###### `initialTabId`: `string`

The id of the tab to be selected upon mounting of component. If this prop is not set, the first tab will be selected by default. The id provided will be internally prefixed with a unique instance ID to avoid collisions.

_Note: this prop will be overridden by the `selectedTabId` prop if it is provided. (Controlled Mode)_

-   Required: No

###### `onSelect`: `( ( selectedId: string | null | undefined ) => void )`

The function called when a tab has been selected. It is passed the selected tab's ID as an argument.

-   Required: No
-   Default: `noop`

###### `orientation`: `horizontal | vertical`

The orientation of the `tablist` (`vertical` or `horizontal`)

-   Required: No
-   Default: `horizontal`

> ###### `selectedTabId`: `string | null | undefined`

Reviewer 2: Given that this prop is not required, I don't think we need to add the `| undefined` in its type.

The ID of the tab to display. This id is prepended with the `Tabs` instanceId internally.
This prop puts the component into controlled mode. A value of `null` will result in no tab being selected.

> - Required: No

Reviewer 2: Formatting

```suggestion

- Required: No
```

- `Tab`: renders a single tab.
- `TabPanel`: renders the content to display for a single tab once that tab is selected.

#### Tabs

##### Props

###### `children`: `React.ReactNode`

The children elements, which should be at least a `Tabs.Tablist` component and a series of `Tabs.TabPanel` components.

-   Required: Yes

###### `activeClass`: `string`

The class to add to the active tab

-   Required: No
-   Default: `is-active`

###### `selectOnMove`: `boolean`

When `true`, the tab will be selected when receiving focus (automatic tab activation). When `false`, the tab will be selected only when clicked (manual tab activation). See the [official W3C docs](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabpanel/) for more info.

-   Required: No
-   Default: `true`

###### `initialTabId`: `string`

The id of the tab to be selected upon mounting of component. If this prop is not set, the first tab will be selected by default. The id provided will be internally prefixed with a unique instance ID to avoid collisions.

_Note: this prop will be overridden by the `selectedTabId` prop if it is provided. (Controlled Mode)_

-   Required: No

> -   Default: none

Reviewer: The smallest comment ever: From what I've seen, we usually omit `Default` if there is none.

#### TabList

##### Props

###### `children`: `React.ReactNode`

The children elements, which should be a series of `Tabs.TabPanel` components.

-   Required: No

###### `className`: `string`

The class name to apply to the tablist.

-   Required: No
-   Default: ''

###### `style`: `React.CSSProperties`

Custom CSS styles for the tablist.

- Required: No

#### Tab

##### Props

###### `id`: `string`

The id of the tab, which is prepended with the `Tabs` instance ID.

- Required: Yes

###### `title`: `string`

The label for the tab.

- Required: Yes

###### `style`: `React.CSSProperties`

Custom CSS styles for the tab.

- Required: No

###### `children`: `React.ReactNode`

The children elements, generally the text to display on the tab.

- Required: No

###### `className`: `string`

The class name to apply to the tab.

- Required: No

###### `icon`: `IconType`

The icon used for the tab button.

- Required: No

###### `disabled`: `boolean`

Determines if the tab button should be disabled.

- Required: No
- Default: `false`

#### TabPanel

##### Props

###### `children`: `React.ReactNode`

The children elements, generally the content to display on the tabpanel.

- Required: No

> ###### `id`: `string`

Reviewer: Missing `required` info. Based only on looking at types, it looks like a yes: 

https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/blob/95f2a23a443d144c79e2a6b5a0a931bcde905fb2/packages/components/src/tabs/types.ts#L105

Author: Thank you!

> # TabPanel

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Tabs
```

> Tabs is a collection of React components that combine to render an ARIA-compliant TabPanel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tabs is a collection of React components that combine to render an [ARIA-compliant tabs pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/tabs/).
```

Tab labels appear in a single row, in the same typeface and size. Use text labels that clearly and succinctly describe the content of a tab, and make sure that a set of tabs contains a cohesive group of items that share a common characteristic.

Tab labels can wrap to a second line, but do not add a second row of tabs.

#### Active tab indicators

To differentiate an active tab from an inactive tab, apply an underline and color change to the active tab’s text and icon.

![An underline and color change differentiate an active tab from the inactive ones.](https://wordpress.org/gutenberg/files/2019/01/s_E36D9C9B8FFA15A1A8CE224E422535A12B016F88884089575F9998E52016A49F_1541787691601_TabPanelActiveTab.png)

### Behavior

Users can navigate between tabs by clicking the desired tab with their mouse. They can also tap the tab key on their keyboard to focus the `tablist`, and then navigate between tabs by tapping the arrow keys on their keyboard.

### Placement

Tabs are generally placed above content, allowing them to control the UI region displayed below them. It is also possible to render the tabs or the content elsewhere in the UI, using a `SlotFill` component when necessary.

> 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we could omit this part and keep the README a bit leaner, in line with recent components

Author: Works for me - focus more on our component, and less on the philosophy/theory of the tabs pattern 👍

Tabs can be used in an uncontrolled mode, where the component manages its own state. In this mode, the `initialTabId` prop can be used to set the initially selected tab. If this prop is not set, the first tab will be selected by default. In addition, in most cases where the currently active tab becomes disabled or otherwise unavailable, uncontrolled mode will automatically fall back to selecting the first available tab.

```jsx
import { Tabs } from '@wordpress/components';

const onSelect = ( tabName ) => {
	console.log( 'Selecting tab', tabName );
};

const MyUncontrolledTabs = () => (
		<Tabs onSelect={onSelect} initialTab="tab2">
			<Tabs.TabList >
				<Tabs.Tab id={ 'tab1' } title={ 'Tab 1' }>
					Tab 1
				</Tabs.Tab>
				<Tabs.Tab id={ 'tab2' } title={ 'Tab 2' }>
					Tab 2
				</Tabs.Tab>
				<Tabs.Tab id={ 'tab3' } title={ 'Tab 3' }>
					Tab 3
				</Tabs.Tab>
			</Tabs.TabList>
			<Tabs.TabPanel id={ 'tab1' }>
				<p>Selected tab: Tab 1</p>
			</Tabs.TabPanel>
			<Tabs.TabPanel id={ 'tab2' }>
				<p>Selected tab: Tab 2</p>
			</Tabs.TabPanel>
			<Tabs.TabPanel id={ 'tab3' }>
				<p>Selected tab: Tab 3</p>
			</Tabs.TabPanel>
		</Tabs>
	);
```

#### Controlled Mode

> Tabs can also be used in a controlled mode, where the selected tab is specified by a parent component. In this mode, the `initialTabId` prop will be ignored if it is provided. Instead, the `selectedTabId` value will be used to determine the selected tab. If the `selectedTabId` is `null`, no tab is selected. In this mode, if the currently selected tab becomes disabled or otherwise unavailable, the component will _not_ fall back to another available tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tabs can also be used in a controlled mode, where the parent component specifies the `selectedTabId` and the `onSelect` props to control tab selection. In this mode, the `initialTabId` prop will be ignored if it is provided. If the `selectedTabId` is `null`, no tab is selected. In this mode, if the currently selected tab becomes disabled or otherwise unavailable, the component will _not_ fall back to another available tab, leaving the controlling component in charge of implementing the desired logic.
```
